.TH companion n "August 23, 2004" "Ver: 1.0"
.SH NAME
companion \- Finds gravitationally bound systems in simulation data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
companion [-H [-z \fIcutoff\fP] [-g \fIindex\fP [-a]]|-t] [-c|-m|-s]
[-C|-M|-S] [ -f \fIfiletype\fP ] [ -e \fIcutoff\fP ] [ -E \fIcutoff\fP
] [ -h \fIcutoff\fP ] [ -q \fIcutoff\fP ] [ -o \fIangle\fP ] [ -x
\fIindex\fP ] file [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Companion is designed to locate instantaneously bound systems in
simulation data and report these in an easy-to-read way.  For a
complete description of the theory behind the code, see "Leinhardt,
Z.M., Richardson, D.C., 2004. TITLE GOES HERE.  Icarus, in press."
Without -H specified (hierarchical search), two output files are
created, whose names are based on the input filename(s), but with
extensions ".pr" and ".ana".  The former output file is in
human-readable format; the latter, though still a text file, is
intended for easy parsing by scripts.  With -H, output is to a file
with extension ".hier".
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -H
Enable hierarchical search for systems.  The -z, -g, and -a options
only apply if -H is also specified.  -H and -t cannot be used
together.
.IP "-z \fIcutoff\fP"
Apply a filter that excludes binaries when either binary is itself a
binary and its orbit comes within the semimajor axis of the other (if
\fIcutoff\fP is zero) or within a fixed distance (if \fIcutoff\fP is
non-zero; use negative values for units of semimajor axis, otherwise
units are in output units).  This option is like the -q option except
the objects involved may already be binaries or more complex systems.
Only applies to the -H option.
.IP "-g \fIindex\fP"
Extract hierarchical system \fIindex\fP (index numbers are listed in
the hierarchical output).  Output has extension ".hext" and uses the
same format as the input file (see -f option).  Filters are ignored
unless -a is also specified.  Only applies to the -H option.  Also see
the -x option.
.IP -a
When extracting a hierarchical system (see -g option), apply any
user-specified filters as well.  Only applies to the -g option.
.IP -t
Create tipsy-style output vector consisting of a single column whose
starting value is the number of particles N and the next N values are
the most negative binding energies found for each particle in order of
input (or zero if the particle is not bound to any other particle).
Intended for use with the "tipsy" visualization package (see
http://www-hpcc.astro.washington.edu/tools/tipsy/tipsy.html).  Cannot
be used with the -H option.
.IP -c
Indicates input units are in cgs (this is the default).
.IP -m
Indicates input units are in mks.
.IP -s
Indicates input units are such that the gravitation constant G is
unity.
.IP -C
Specifies cgs output units (this is the default).
.IP -M
Specifies mks output units.
.IP -S
Specifies output units such that the gravitation constant G is unity.
.IP "-f \fIfiletype\fP"
Set input file format to \fIfiletype\fP.  Allowed values of
\fIfiletype\fP are "txt" (for plain text) and "bin" (for binary).  In
both cases, the order of data should be mass, radius, x position, y
position, z position, x velocity, y velocity, and z velocity, for each
particle in turn.  For "txt", fields must be separated by whitespace;
for "bin", all values must be 32-bit double precision floats.
.IP "-e \fIcutoff\fP"
Apply a filter that removes any binary whose eccentricity exceeds
\fIcutoff\fP.
.IP "-E \fIcutoff\fP"
Apply a filter that removes any binary whose binding energy exceeds
\fIcutoff\fP, in output units.  Recall that bound systems have
negative binding energy.
.IP "-h \fIcutoff\fP"
Apply a filter that removes any binary whose semimajor axis exceeds
\fIcutoff\fP Hill radii.  This option is intended to remove binaries
in a tidal field exerted by a central body.  The user will be prompted
to supply the mass of the central body (in solar masses) and the mean
distance of the binary from the central body (in AU).
.IP "-q \fIcutoff\fP"
Apply a filter that removes any binary whose close approach distance
comes within the sum of the radii of the two components (if
\fIcutoff\fP is zero; this effectively removes binaries whose
components are on a collision trajectory) or within a fixed distance 
(if \fIcutoff\fP is nonzero; use negative values for units of the
radius of the primary, otherwise units are in output units).  Also see
the -z option for hierarchical output.
.IP "-o \fIangle\fP"
Set the critical opening angle for the tree walk to \fIangle\fP (in
radians; default 0.5).
.IP "-x \fIindex\fP"
Extract systems whose primary matches \fIindex\fP (where the input
particles are taken to have indices from 0 to N - 1, where N is the
number of particles).  Output has extension ".ext" and uses the same
format as the input file (see -f option).  Filters are ignored.  Also
see the -g option for hierarchical output.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Companion is Copyright (C) 2004 by Z. M. Leinhardt and
D. C. Richardson and is distributed under the terms and conditions of
the GNU Public License, without any warranty (expressed or implied).
.SH AUTHORS
Z. M. Leinhardt and D. C. Richardson, University of Maryland.
.SH BUGS
All bug reports, comments, praise, and criticism should be e-mailed to
zoe@astro.umd.edu
